Our theme this month is “Feed Your Hope.”
Hope is essential for peace,
happiness, courage, and life.
But what is hope?
When the Bible uses the word “hope,”
it’s referring not only
to the desire for something good
but also to the basis
for believing it will happen.
So hope is more than just wishful thinking
or even expectation.
It’s based on fact.
There’s evidence to back it up.
Thus, true hope
can come only from the One
who has the power to fulfill
whatever he promises—Jehovah God.
Jehovah provides hope in abundance.
Notice what Romans 15:13 says about Jehovah:
“May the God who gives hope
“fill you with all joy and peace
“by your trusting in him,
“so that you may abound in hope
with power of holy spirit.”
Yes, Jehovah gives us what we need
to “abound in hope.”
And yet, the apostle Paul also wrote,
as recorded at Colossians 1:23,
that a Christian could be
“shifted away from the hope.”
So we must never take our hope for granted.
We need to feed it.
What do you need to feed hope?
Two things are mentioned at Romans 15:4:
“For all the things that were written beforehand
“were written for our instruction,
“so that through our endurance
“and through the comfort from the Scriptures
we might have hope.”
So did you notice what feeds hope?
“Our endurance”
and “the comfort from the Scriptures.”
The Scriptures
—what we take into our minds
is vital to keeping our hope strong.
For example, recall what happened
shortly after Jesus was executed,
as recorded in Luke chapter 24.
This is part of the conversation
between an unidentified traveler
and the disheartened disciples.
The disciples were beside themselves
with grief over Jesus’ death.
The traveler, though,
was in fact the resurrected Jesus.
The disciples didn’t yet realize this.
So they said, as recorded at Luke 24:21:
“But we were hoping that this man was the one
“who was going to deliver Israel.
“Yes, and besides all these things,
this is the third day since these things occurred.”
This scripture shows just how susceptible
we can be to discouragement
when things don’t turn out as we expect.
But notice what Jesus did to help them
in verses 25-27:
“So he said to them:
‘O senseless ones
“‘and slow of heart to believe all the things
the prophets have spoken!
“‘Was it not necessary
for the Christ to suffer these things
“and to enter into his glory?’
“And starting with Moses
“and all the Prophets,
“he interpreted to them things
pertaining to himself in all the Scriptures.”
So how did Jesus feed their hope?
First, by showing them that they were right
to hope in the fulfillment of the Scriptures
and then by teaching them
how those Scriptures had been fulfilled.
Can we do the same today?
Yes!
When we’re facing challenges
that threaten our hope,
we should ask Jehovah for guidance
by means of his holy spirit,
and then, with the help of the publications
of “the faithful and discreet slave,”
we should meditate carefully
on how the Scriptures are being fulfilled.
It can be difficult to find time for this
in these hectic days.
There are so many claims on our attention
—so many things to know and do.
But what you take into your mind
is vital to keeping your hope alive.
The humanitarian crises facing mankind today
could make any one of us feel anxious.
Experts in fields of technology,
finance, and government
have found it necessary to coin new words
to convey the gravity of the situation.
In 2023,
the word “polycrisis” began to soar in usage.
A polycrisis refers
to many global threats
happening at the same time
—the overlapping of health emergencies,
climate change, wars, forced migrations,
natural disasters, and economic collapse
all happening simultaneously.
A polycrisis
could throw a person
off balance spiritually.
But as students
of Jesus’ sign of the last days,
we have fully anticipated
that there would be
many serious problems
facing mankind at the same time
and on an unprecedented scale.
But isn’t it interesting
that the world itself has seen fit
to come up with an expression
that adequately matches
what we are going through?
Whether they realize it or not,
they’re acknowledging
that Jesus’ words are being fulfilled.
So rather than become eaten up by anxiety,
we can find hope in these very same facts
—if we meditate
on the fulfillment of the Scriptures.
The Scriptures contain the promise of God
—a promise of salvation.
“Jehovah God . . . [will] bring to ruin
those ruining the earth.”
“There is going to be a resurrection.”
“Death will be no more.”
“The righteous will possess the earth,
and they will live forever on it.”
Understanding how the Scriptures apply
and how they’re fulfilled builds our faith.
The stronger our faith is,
the stronger our hope will be
because “faith is the assured
[the assured] expectation
of what is hoped for.”
Do you think often about your hope?
Do you meditate on what it means?
First Thessalonians 5:8 says:
“Let us . . . put on . . .
the hope of salvation
as a helmet.”
As a helmet protects the head,
so hope protects the mind.
Who of us does not need such a helmet?
Perhaps you have a favorite Kingdom song
or original song from jw.org
that keeps Jehovah’s promises
shining brightly in your mind.
When you recall that song,
you’re feeding your hope,
which in turn guards your thinking.
Our hope has to be so real to us
that we can see ourselves in the new world
—no longer battling illness and depression,
but waking up each day with better hearing,
better vision, better looks, better outlooks;
no longer mourning the death of those we love
but, rather, experiencing the thrill
of seeing them come back to life.
What’s the longest life span
you’ve ever heard of?
What’s the greatest number you can think of?
Now combine the two concepts.
Living for—
Well, we could attempt to explain
googolplexes of galactic millenniums.
But the fact is that no matter
how great a period of time
you can possibly fathom,
Jehovah promises us life
that cannot be defined by any number
because it never stops.
That’s what the Bible means
by its many references to everlasting life.
Visualize a project
that would take several thousand years
to plan and complete.
What kind of forests would you like to grow?
Imagine having millions of years to observe,
analyze, and draw new conclusions
from Jehovah’s activities and creative works.
What possibilities exist
for an earth filled with loyal, loving people
who cooperate with the many systems
Jehovah has created?
What kind of knowledge
would you like to acquire
that is currently out of reach
because of our limited life span?
What will it be like to build
on the knowledge of hundreds of generations?
Picture whom you will meet
in the resurrection.
Yes, we think of family members
and faithful ones of old.
But consider what it will be like
to understand how you are related
to every person on this planet
—all the way back to the beginning!
Imagine all intelligent creation
in heaven and on earth
united as one happy family praising Jehovah!
Is this just wishful thinking?
happy thoughts? a dream?
No, this is hope.
It’s meditation on the promise of God,
“who cannot lie”;
meditation on what he has done
to fulfill his promise
—providing the ransom
and establishing a heavenly Kingdom
that will bring mankind back to perfection;
meditation on Jehovah’s personality
—a personality revealed
in his creative works, in the Scriptures,
and mirrored perfectly
by his only-begotten Son—
a personality we know
not only through deep study
but also through our own experience.
And this leads us
to the second way we feed our hope.
Recall that Romans 15:4 said
there are two ways to feed your hope
—“through the comfort from the Scriptures”
but also “through our endurance.”
How does endurance feed your hope?
Well, notice what Paul said about this
back at Romans 5:3-5:
“Not only that,
“but let us rejoice while in tribulations,
“since we know that tribulation
produces endurance;
“endurance, in turn, an approved condition;
“the approved condition, in turn, hope,
“and the hope
does not lead to disappointment.”
Now, the “hope” mentioned here
is referring not to our initial hope.
We already had that when we learned
the promise of God
contained in the Scriptures.
That’s why Paul begins verse 3
with the words “not only that.”
Yes, not only do we rejoice
in our initial hope
but we rejoice in our reinforced hope
—hope made even stronger
through new experiences with Jehovah
as our personal Helper.
Now, the only way
to understand this process fully
is by going through it.
What’s been your experience?
What have you done
when undergoing tribulation?
No doubt you turned to Jehovah for help.
And then what happened?
He helped you.
True, the trial
might not have disappeared,
but you discovered
that you somehow
had the strength to endure it,
or the wisdom to manage it,
or practical aid or encouragement
at just the right time,
or the courage
to continue bearing witness to the truth.
How did you feel in that moment?
Did you sense
that Jehovah heard your prayer?
Did you perceive Jehovah reassuring you
that you and he have a relationship?
When you go through that
—even once—
you no longer wonder
whether you could endure a crisis.
You know you can with Jehovah’s help.
That is hope
—not simply a desire for something good,
but the basis for believing it will happen.
Many of our dear brothers and sisters
have built up a lifetime of such experiences.
That’s why their hope hasn’t weakened
despite waiting for the new world
for decades.
To the contrary, their hope
has been strengthened through experience.
They know firsthand
what Romans 5:3-5 is talking about
—and likely you do as well.
Thank God for hope!
Jehovah is “the God who gives hope.”
May we never become
“shifted away from [our] hope.”
When difficulties arise, feed your hope!
Continue to meditate
on “the comfort from the Scriptures.”
Keep trusting in Jehovah
for strength and wisdom.
And each day,
take note of how he reassures you
that hope
—your hope—
is real.